---
title: I Want My 60hz Back
template: article.jade
author: gaz
date: 2013-07-06 06:00
img: 
tags: nerd code chrome 60hz
---
[html5]: http://www.html5rocks.com/en/

Learnt some Chrome stuff this morning after trying to get rid of some nasty tearing in a [HTML5][html5] thing I'm playing with and I honestly can't be doing with sub frame synced 2d gaming.

So it was a bit depressing to be seeing a tearing, jerky mess when moving a few sprites around on a canvas element. That's usually a surefire sign of a sub 60hz update and that was a bit surprising.  Even though I'm rusty and not the best programmer in the world I've always written stuff that's fairly efficient and this seemed well within any browser's capabilities. These canvas elements are GPU accelerated so it shouldn't be a problem chucking abound a few sprite should it?

A bit of googling found that Chrome will tell you exactly how it's using your GPU. It's pretty easy, Just copy this: <hl>chrome://gpu</hl> into your browser address bar and you'll get a page full of interesting stuff including any problems. On my machine it threw up this

<div class='boxout'>
Force compositing mode is off, either disabled at the command line or not supported by the current system.
</div>

Chrome offers a fair amount of knobs, levers and dials to muck about with if you want in <hl>chrome:flags</hl> and in there I found <hl>GPU compositing on all pages</hl> set to <hl>DEFAULT</hl>. In this <hl>DEFAULT</hl> actually means <hl>DISABLED</hl>. So I changed it to <hl>ENABLED</hl>.

And pronto presto, tear free 60hz :) Here it is:

<div style='margin: 0 auto'>

<iframe style='display: block' class="vine-embed" src="https://vine.co/v/h7z76euYanp/embed/simple" width="480" height="480" frameborder="0"></iframe><script async src="//platform.vine.co/static/scripts/embed.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

</div>

Worth noting that if you feel like meddling with any of the other flags that threaded composition is refresh rate cancer. Don't enable that.

Probably worth making clear this is Chrome Version 28.0.1500.63 on Linux and these notes are likely specific to that version but right now? My stuff is feeling like a proper video game again :)

Bit of a shame that the current distro of out of the box Linux Chrome on this machine is a bit teary but I have no control over that unfortunately. Really though there should be a 60hz Tsar who does have control over that sort of thing and it should be me. I would be merciless! :)
