---
title: E3 Diary - Monday
template: article.jade
author: gaz
date: 2013-06-10 00:32
img: 
tags: e3
---

So here's my first post for my E3 Diary, I'm here until Friday and I thought since I'm actually doing something off the beaten track it'd be good form to blog it.

We got in today and I'm doing my usual and making zero effort to adjust to the local tone zone. We hit Santa Monica late afternoon so I ordered a salad from room service and then immediately crashed out.

It's now midnight and after a few hours kip I'm bright as a daisy. Tomorrow is relatively light, the show first start until Tuesday but we have the main MS keynote in the morning. There was a bit of mini-drama where despite being invited initially it was possible my place had been cancelled as they'd overbooked the venue and Duncan would be attending on his todd. That's passed now and I'm good to go as well. It's way across town and we need to get there to start queuing by 8:15. So it'll be an early cab for us.

Despite the lightness of Monday the show days are pretty packed and after playing calendar Tetris I've a good set of meetings through to Thursday. Friday's going to be a bit of a pain, I need to get to Southampton for an early afternoon wedding and the only way to do that was a fairly cicruitous route that's going to mean flying back via Toronto enjoying a six hour stopover there. I'm going to be shattered. Suzie and Charlie will be meeting me down there and we should get a couple of days catching up with friends and family :)

Right now I'm going to plan out my running. Can I come back from the states without gaining half a stone? Only  if I make a concerted effort at it. Santa Monica is a great place to run, I'm hoping to make it along the front up to Venice  and back, maybe scope out Strava for best routes. And while  over here hoping to find a decent sports shop to try some zero drop minimalist shoes
