---
title: Run Home
template: article.jade
author: gaz
date: 2013-07-23 08:44
img: 
tags: tags
---

[trainingpace]: http://www.runnersworld.co.uk/general/rws-training-pace-calculator/1676.html
[rkapp]: http://runkeeper.com/running-app
[headphones]:
[ridein]: http://app.strava.com/activities/69004056
[grangeroad]: /misc/2013-06-22-grange-road-twat.html

<iframe height='412' width='600' frameborder='0' allowtransparency='true' scrolling='no' src='http://app.strava.com/activities/69004057/embed/0abaf9451f6a81c872fd36f088f206aa7b9d6aa1'></iframe>

That was interesting. After this morning's running brain dump I kept true to my word and run home last night. And I've learnt a few things. Here's a rambling analysis for my own benefit really. Writing this stuff down helps me order my thoughts.

## Long, Slow, Comfortable Run
That was the plan, according to several [training  pace calculators][trainingpace] I should be doing these type of runs at 6:43 m/km. So I did try but I have terrible pace control, the first km was in under 5 minutes, DURH. Part of the problem is an inappropriate pride in an okay 10km time on the hilly course. But that's not bright, longer term it'll keep me in the ghetto of okay times. I want a sub 50m eventually and this won't get me there. I need the slower, longer runs to increase CV endurance and not stress out my muscles.

I got home a little wrecked and had really sore calves for the evening. Hey it made Suzey laugh seeing me do a bow legged hobble up and down the stairs so it wasn't all bad. A bit twingey this morning.

* I really need to see if I can drop the machismo speed focus and train properly at this distance
* Set a -goal- for a taking a minimum of 60 minutes to get home.
* Look at pace management through the [Runkeeper App][rkapp] for help

## Music!
Doh! On the way out I picked up a broken pair of headphones. They kind of work intermittently but cut out half way through the ride in so now they're on a hedge along the Tay somewhere. So for the run home it meant no iPhone supplied ents and it's longest distance I've run like that. Kind of fearing a bit of a grind but was pleasantly surprised that it was just fine with the added bonus of allowing me to concentrate on form.

* Surprisingly enjoyable and will no music running again

## Backpack
Started off not very happy at all, I had a backpack with laptop and stuff in weighing around 5kg and it was wobbling all over the place. Got a bit of chaffing at the base of my spine to start with and was totally prepared to chuck it all in and get a bus. Then my form kind of adjusted to stop the swinging mostly by bouncing less, keeping my upper body more rigid. And that's pretty good as I understand it, a marker of good form.

## Route
Went by the shortest route home at around 10km, along the main road from the office to home. It's okay but the road it tracks is pretty busy that time of night and I'm running alongside it gulping in gobbets of dirty air. Tempted to try the longer 12km route through the docks next Monday. That reinforces that the need for a slower pace it's a longer run that culminates in running up the [horrible grange road][grangeroad]. Really don't want to do that with nothing left in the tank.
