---
title: AWS Micro Instance, mysql and swap files
template: article.jade
author: gaz
date: 2013-10-10 07:59:05
img:
tags: nerd aws phpbb3 phpbb mysql micro instance
---
[aws]: http://aws.amazon.com
[prevblog]: http://zeropager.com/misc/2013-10-04-aws.html

An [Amazon Web Services][aws] handy hint! Findable elsewhere on the web but also posted here for my own reference.

I recently [migrated a phpbb3 bulletin board to AWS][prevblog]. Being a bit of cheapskate I chose the cheapest option, a micro instance, that thanks to the benolvence of Amazon is actually pretty much free for the first year. They're the kind of prices I like :D

It's been working fine for a couple of weeks but last night mysqld died with the arcane message of
<pre>mysqld dead but subsys locked</pre>

Turns out the issue is the instance run out of memory. Free is great but also limited in some respects. Luckily there's an easy work around. EWS micro instances don't create any swap space but you can do that yourself.

First create a swapfile and tell the OS you need to use it:

<pre>
sudo dd if=/dev/zero of=/swapfile bs=1M count=1024
sudo mkswap /swapfile
sudo swapon /swapfile
</pre>

And if you want it enabled on reboot add this to /ect/fsat

<pre>/swapfile swap swap defaults 0 0</pre>

Bingo jingo! Is a micro instance enough to run the forum we host? Too early to tell as yet. The great thing is upgrading to small or medium sized instances is just a mouse click away. Even at the paid tier for small we're looking ~ $30 pcm which is still a massive saving over the costs of dedicated server. So it's all win.

After this I created an AMI of the updated micro-instance so the changes I made would survive on reboot :)

As ever stackoverflow has this covered here:

[http://stackoverflow.com/questions/17173972/how-do-you-add-swap-to-any-ec2-instance](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/17173972/how-do-you-add-swap-to-any-ec2-instance)

