---
title: git stash -> retrieving a single file
template: article.jade
author: gaz
date: 2013-07-02 08:03
img: 
tags: git stash nerd
---

Posted for my own erudition and so I don't have to trawl the net for this again :)

Stashing in git is great :)

Now I have a bug and it was introduced with either bubbles.coffee or gun.coffee but it's not clear which one is causing the problem. Here's git <code>git st</code> on my working directory gives me:

<pre class='prettyprint'>
gaz@gazbuntu:~/development/bacontest$ git st
# On branch master
# Changes not staged for commit:
#   (use "git add <file>..." to update what will be committed)
#   (use "git checkout -- <file>..." to discard changes in working directory)
#
#	modified:   app/scripts/game/gamecomp/bubbles.coffee
#	modified:   app/scripts/game/gamecomp/gun.coffee
#
</pre>

There are lots of ways that git offers to help you solve a problem like this but this morning I used <code>git stash</code>. Stashing allows you to store away your current changes somewhere magic so you can work on a clean directory.

This is what <code>git stash</code> does:

- Gathers up all edits you've done since the last commit
- Adds them to something called a stash
- Reverts all of your edits to the last commit

<pre class='prettyprint'>
gaz@gazbuntu:~/development/bacontest$ git stash
Saved working directory and index state WIP on master: 2d66aba + Moved to request animation frame ! Need to change to multi-browser invocation at some point
HEAD is now at 2d66aba last checkin comment
</pre>

And now if I do a status I've a clean dir reverted to how it was on my last commit. But where's my stuff? It's in a stash. A stash is a collection of files. You can have multiple stashes stored in a stack. So after the above I have one stash. It's easy to list the stashes I have with <code>git stash list</code>

<pre class='prettyprint'>
gaz@gazbuntu:~/development/bacontest$ git stash list
stash@{0}: WIP on master: 2d66aba last checkin comment
</pre>

So there we are. Now the thing I learnt this morning is it's possible to check out individual files from a stash. You use the syntax;

<pre class='prettyprint'>
	git co [stash name] -- [file]
</pre>

I used that to individually check out files from the stash to pin down which one was causing the bug. To  bring back bullet.coffee's changes I did this:

<pre class='prettyprint'>
gaz@gazbuntu:~/development/bacontest$ git co stash@{0} -- app/scripts/game/gamecomp/bubbles.coffee 
gaz@gazbuntu:~/development/bacontest$ git st
# On branch master
# Changes to be committed:
#   (use "git reset HEAD <file>..." to unstage)
#
#	modified:   app/scripts/game/gamecomp/bubbles.coffee
#

</pre>

Testing the build shows the problem wasn't with bullet.coffee which narrows it down to gun.coffee

At that point I did a <code>git stash pop</code> which re-applied the entire stash to the current directory and deleted the stash. After that I edited the gun.coffee and fixed the problem.

There's a bunch of commands that are useful. If you don't specify a <stash-name> they usually work on the stash at the top of the stash stack

- <code>git stash apply [stash-name]</code> - Apply the stash but don't remove any stashes from stash stack
- <code>git stash show [stash-name]</code> - show the names of the files in the stash 
- <code>git stash drop [stash-name]</code> - delete the stash
- <code>git stash branch [new branch]</code> - create a new branch and apply stash

